We had a question.
Is there some way to force
the variable I'm dealing
with in my local scope of my function,
to exist outside of it in the wider scope,
in the global scope.
All right, that was the question
am I paraphrasing, okay.
So let is one kind of hack we could
use to do something like this.
But this can be kind of dangerous.
So for example,
let's say we have a variable called
feeling that has a value of free.
Because it's a let variable,
that means I can change what it points to.
So if I have a function
trap within that scope.
I can do an assignment
to the variable feeling,
which was created in
the outdoors global scope,
and assign it to a new value boxed in.
So now the question is outside of that
function, once I've run the function trap,
what is going to happen when
I do console.log(feeling).
What do you guess.
>> Boxed in.
Any other guesses?
Let's find out.
Oops, all right, so we have our feeling
free, just checking free, cool.
We have our trap function.
Nothing happened.
Didn't call it yet.
Let's call it, okay.
And now let's check what feeling is,
it is indeed boxed in.
Okay, let's go to the whiteboard and
talk about what just happened.
So we had our global scope
We declared a variable feeling and
what did this point to initially?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> The string free, okay.
And because it's let, we have a flexible
arrow here that can be changed.
Then we had our function,
what was it called, trap?
Which creates its own new scope
with tinted windows on it.
But in this case, within there, we had
a reference to the variable feeling.
We asked JavaScript,
give me the variable feeling.
Because of the tinted
windows JavaScript says okay,
I don't see any local variable feeling.
So let me look out the windows.
I find this variable feeling.
Now I've got it.
And then we said,
we gave an assignment to a new value.
And when it runs that assignment,
JavaScript is gonna conjure
up the whatever it was called,
boxed in the new value.
And it's going to get rid
of our old association.
Because feeling it found
in the global context and
it can actually modify
what feeling points to,
even though it's outside of its scope.
So that change,
the pointer change from free to boxed in,
is actually going to persist
outside of this function scope.
So this is kind of a weird thing that
we need to be careful of when we're
using variables with let.
Which means that we can reassign them.
Now, if we had tried this with const,
what would've happened?
Error can't reassign,
can't reassign const.
So wouldn't matter whether we were
inside or outside of the function.
We can't reassign a const variable.
Another reason why it's
often useful to use const.
So that accidentally somebody
doesn't mess with your variables
while you're not looking.
Okay, any questions on that?
>> But
isn't string immutable in JavaScript?
>> Great question.
So, yes, strings are immutable.
Notice that we did not
change the free string.
What changed was the pointer,
the arrow connecting
The variable feeling to a value,
the arrow that JavaScript will
then follow anytime we ask it to
evaluate the variable feeling.
So initially it was
pointing out one string.
We didn't change that string,
we conjured up a new string.
Got rid of that old arrow and then created
a new arrow pointing to a different value.
So we did not actually
modify the string free.
We modified what the variable points to.
And that was only possible because it
was a let variable, and not a const.
Good stuff, all right.
So this is scope.
There is a lot more that can be
said about scope and JavaScript.
There is a lot more.
And as you dig deeper and deeper,
and deeper into JavaScript,
you're going to run up against
other scope weirdnesses.
So I highly encourage you all to continue
exploring that and doing some research.
You can read about it on places like MDN,
you can read about it on,
people blog about it.
There's lots of other good resources
about scope in JavaScript,
there are some other great
courses in FrontEnd Masters.
Does that go more in depth
into how scope works.
But this is just kind of a basic first
step with JavaScript scope, is to kind of.
Think about it like every
time we create a function,
we're creating a new limo with tinted
windows on it, that we can't look into.
And that is going to affect which
variables we can reference,
where and when.
But we can see out of the limo.
So that's why we were able
to modify our feeling that
was declared outside
of this trap function.
And it's also how we were able to,
in our isCorrect function.
We were able to evaluate fact,
which was a variable declared
in the wider context,
not inside of the function.